# Framingham-Heart-Study

###Executive Summary
Framingham Heart study data provides substantial insight into the epidemiology of cardiovascular disease and its risk factors. The risk factors such as blood pressure, glucose, total cholesterol and body mass index (BMI) are used to predict Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) in a middle aged population sample. Coronary disease risk prediction model is developed using numerical and categorical data, allowing us to predict CHD risk in patients. The primary purpose of our analysis is to infer risk of Coronary Heart Disease, kind of cardiovascular disease (CVD), from several decision models that are developed by the team using predictive modeling techniques learnt in the class.
 A total of 11,627 samples were collected from Framingham Heart Study and refined using such techniques as redefining data types into continuous, nominal or ordinal variables, visualizing data using summary tables, graphs and charts, filling missing data through missing data patterns, identifying redundant variables and outlier detection using Box plot and Mahalanobis distance. The cleaned data set, consisting of 11,546 samples, was segregated into training and validation data set. The models were developed on top of cleaned data set. The team initially prepared Decision Tree model using K fold validation, Logistic Regression model, Discriminant Analysis model, Neural networks model, Bootstrap Forest model. The score sheet of accuracy, true negative and true positive, of these models was captured and compared, and validated with the validation data set. Eventually, it was tested using testing data set. Furthermore, in order to select the best model, we used penalty error matrix which consists different weights for false positive and false negative errors was also calculated. The team finally selected the model based on highest accuracy and lowest penalty error.
Our team believes that this predictive model will increase the efficacy of predicting Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) and population at risk with the help of risk factors or independent variables. We hope this model will be helpful in dealing with the risk factors to prevent deadly heart disease.
